[ Music ]
>> Lilou: Hello my
juicy co creators,
Lilou here for Gaiam TV.
I'm on the road.
I'm in London, England
for another interview.
This is a different
interview that usually, well,
I can't really say that.
I was going to say it's
a different interview
than others, but no.
You made a conscious profound
shift in your existence
in your life to be
really of contribution
to other human beings,
and you demonstrate this
in many many ways.
Your background is in property
management, property business,
but you're in system billety
and you work for large groups
of hotels, Intercontinental
Hotels, etcetera; right?
>> Lawrence Bloom: I
actually sat on the main board
of the Intercontinental
Hotel Group, yeah.
>> Lilou: And you did
this sabbatical in '96,
and you came back to
business in 2007 I think,
or 2006; 10 years later.
But you had some profound
shift in your way of being,
and I would love to
start this conversation
because this is an important
conversation regarding the
economy and this crisis,
and what really is happening
and the damage it can create
if we don't change
our way of being.
For Gaia, Gaia is really--
it might be our worst nightmare.
>> Bloom: Well, I think Gaia
sent us an intelligence test,
and we're in the
middle of that test.
I think that the rewards for
being successful in this test is
that we will rediscover
interconnectedness
with the earth that gives
us life, our relationship
with the close mass that gave
us birth, our relationship
with each other because
with each other--
without each other our lives
have no meaning, and ultimately,
our relationship with
ourselves and in nature.
And I think the rewards
for success
for this intelligence test which
God has sent and will mark,
are beyond our wildness
dreams, and it will have to do
with a loving, caring,
nurturing, contributing society.
But the penalties of failure
are really beyond our worst
nightmares because the
planet has so much capacity
to absorb the current
rates of green house gasses
that we're admitting into
the atmosphere in a way
which sustains human
life beneficially
so that life can thrive.
So I often get asked,
"Lawrence, will you speak
about the earth in peril?"
And I say, "You know.
The earth is not in peril.
The earth has been here four
and a half billion years.
It will almost certainly
be here for another four
and a half billion years.
What's in peril is us.
We're the ones in peril."
So we even word some
of our talks in a way
that we don't face reality.
We don't face reality
of the situation,
and so I'm spending
a fair amount of time
in the States creating a double
bottom line model for a new form
of energy company, so that model
will be-- will have a purpose.
The purpose is to be
beneficial to the planet
and to future generations,
and we'll look at people.
I don't know if that's the
people that we employee
or the minor community, and
we'll make ourselves responsible
for their education and their
health, and their housing
because I hear a lot
about human rights, okay.
And all that I hear about human
rights has to do with democracy
and free speech, but I
believe something more deeper.
I believe that every human
being by virtue of their birth,
that's all as a human being,
has the right to clean
and fresh water, to nutritious
food, to proper shelter,
to education, and to health;
access to education
and to health.
Of course, freedom of speech,
and so on is important,
but we need for everybody
on this planet
to provide those
basic facilities
and human requirements, so--
>> Lilou: I was going to say,
because clearly this
initiative is about contributing
and supporting the planet, and
this is what you are ambassador
for so that other people
to take those initiatives
and start doing jobs or being
in this way in their own lives
so that then naturally there's
something else that happens
and occurs in our life,
and we're supporting
in a different way this need
of security is in there;
could you tell us
more about that?
>> Bloom: Yes.
Well, yes absolutely.
I think we completely
misunderstand security
at the moment.
Security has been
around force of arms
for so long we don't
know how to let it go.
It isn't around force
of arms anymore.
It isn't about protecting
ourselves
against each other anymore.
What it's about now is coming
together as a global family
to ensure that nobody
slips through the net,
in terms of fresh
water and housing
and nutritious food, etcetera.
And that we come together
as a global family to deal
with the common challenges
of the environment
and the inefficient, and I would
say illogical and greedy use
of resources which
condemn future generations
to lives of abject poverty.
>> Lilou: It's like we focus our
minds on the limitation of some
of the resources when there is
unlimited love, unlimited light,
unlimited, you know
creativity, and we focus
on the lack all the time
when there is an
abundance of so many things.
>> Bloom: Well, I think
there's a balance.
I think there's a
balance between what--
balance between our greed
and what it takes to sustain
us, so our wants and our needs.
Most human needs are very basic,
and once you've got those four
or five ingredients, shelter
and so on, taken care of,
increase in worldly goods
doesn't necessarily bring more
happiness and satisfaction.
In fact, there's more depression
in developed countries
than there is in undeveloped
countries, so the old model
that says the more you have the
happier you are is probably very
faulty in deed.
We need to see how that model
is causing us to strip the earth
of resources that are finite,
and one day we'll just run out.
Top soil is a finite resource,
but we all need food to live
so we need to start to
address these problems
because the catastrophic
results of not will
as I say condemn our children
and maybe ourselves at the end
of our lives and our
children's children to lives
that are very difficult,
so I also spend, I mean,
the power from creating a model
of a typical bottom
line company--
a major one in the states
which will work in Africa
and North America and South
America, we're looking--
I spent a little time in China,
because China is also
overextending herself in her use
of resources, but her leadership
is open to new impulses,
so she experimented
with communism,
and then that worked
politically for her
but it didn't work economically;
there was a huge famine.
Maybe anything up to 10
percent of Chinese starved,
and Xi Jinping, the second
President when he came to power,
famelessly said, "I don't care
what color the cat is as long
as it catches mice, so I don't
care what system we use as long
as it leads people
out of poverty."
They adopted the capitalist
model for about 15 years.
It's worked very well.
It's lifted 650 million
out of poverty,
but it can't lift anymore
because their air is
now totally polluted.
Their rivers are
toxic; they're poison.
The earth is degraded so
they need a new system.
They need a new system.
>> Lilou: But part of what--
it feels like a part of us
are ignorance and there's all
of a sudden China a rise
in capitalism and the money
and purchasing power, and then
there is society goes towards
materialism, and that's
more or less where we're all
at right now in so many places.
Not everywhere, but this is
like if it was the most
important thing on earth
to own more and to have more, or
have this and have that, and--
>> Bloom: We have, yes.
It's a very excellent point, and
it's a point that I like myself,
but it's easy in the Western
world not to feel challenged,
but in China when you
come out of your home,
and you can only see 100
meters in front of you
because the air is so poisoned
and toxic then you know you have
to make a change; in Beijing.
>> Lilou: Unless
you're there short term.
Unless you just see
for tomorrow,
and you don't see the
full vision or see,
you know what really
we're here on earth
to do unless you
just want to be safe.
>> Bloom: What I think the
leadership realizes now there's
a serious problem, and
they're going to have
to address these problems.
So Hu Jintao, who was the
previous president before the
current Xi Jinping, he took
power a few months ago,
spoke about we have to give
up growth, or these levels
of growth and start to
focus on sustainability,
and this is now
constitutionalized
in China's constitution,
so she's one
of the first countries,
certainly the first
major country,
to make a commitment
towards sustainability
and to relinquish some of
the extraordinary growth
that she's had because she's
beginning to realize, excuse me,
that the levels of growth now
and the resource
uses unsustainable.
>> Lilou: Yeah, and it's not
about China versus America
or China being stronger
as a competitor,
and this is not the level
that we need to work on.
>> Bloom: No, and in
fact, I'd like to share
that I don't think we're living
in an age of change anymore.
I think we're living in a change
of age, and the old age was all
about conflict and competition.
It was all about scarcity and
so on, and now we have to move
from those concepts
to collaboration;
see how we can work together.
Look at what unites us,
not what divides us.
So we need to move to
more collaborative models
where we can work together
in a harmonious culture
to provide better lives for
ourselves and our children.
Now, better lives may not
mean five cars or three cars.
It may mean less--
maybe less wealth.
It may mean what we would
consider maybe a lower standard
of living, but that would
be compensated by the joy
that people get in creative
learning and collaboration,
so everywhere we need to look.
We need new models that are
more appropriate to the new age,
and so, for example,
in education.
Education is something
we should address.
We have a situation in education
where arriving on time,
doing your lesson, and leaving
when the bell rings is
all that's important,
but there have been phenomenally
successful experiments
with young children in
education where they work
in different teams of different
ages where they're allowed
to explore their own passions
where they're given freedom
to work with computers to create
information with their computers
to help them with their
projects, so the whole structure
of education moves from an
industrial age to a creative age
because the jobs that are there
today won't be there tomorrow.
The skills that will be needed
from the young generation are
not the skills of yesterday,
they're the skills of tomorrow,
and they can develop
those skills
by their own inner
journeys is ay
in multitasking teams and so on.
So we need to see what's
breaking through this old age
into something new and
vibrant and dynamic.
The biggest problem that
we currently have is the
financial-- I say
the biggest problem,
the environmental problem is the
biggest, so my suggestion is,
and I'll be talking to
the Chinese about this,
that we should be developing
a city that will specialize
in disaster relief
in mitigation.
So I would like to
see the armies
of the world coming
together as a first step.
Maybe with a small
amount of each of their--
like the United Nations
Emergency Force,
The Blue Berets, to
create a rapid relief force
for disaster relief, so they
could use their logistical
capacities, their engineering
capacities for disasters,
and then build up on that
small beginning to see armies
and the military working
together more and more
as I believe disaster
relief will become more
and more important.
We're already at some
dangerous tipping points
with the environment.
We know that 350 parts
per million of CO2
in the atmosphere would start--
anything in excess
of that would start
to trigger an almost
uncontrollable rise
in temperatures.
>> Lilou: And we're
not even talking
of all the electromagnetic
and all the different things
that we're-- that lobbies
are completely, you know,
putting aside, and we're
not even seeing the danger
of all of that.
>> Bloom: Exactly, exactly.
>> Lilou: So this is
disastrous for our health,
for our well being, for, I mean,
look at Fukushima even how
things have been handled;
it's everywhere.
I mean, sometimes we feel
really stressed and in doubt
of how humanity is going to move
forward and that other times,
you know; it's about
moving forward as in step
by step taking those actions
with the right values behind it.
>> Bloom: Exactly, exactly.
Well, I think that
the good news is
that the Chinese say may you
live in interesting times.
It's a curse, but we
live in interesting times
because they're challenging,
very challenging, but I believe
that in many ways
they're a blessing
because it's this very shadow,
our own shadow, which is wanting
to hold on to the past
which is not wanting
to evolve will be the
very trigger that helps us
to take the next
evolutionary step.
So I don't, you know, I hear
a lot conspiracy theories.
Many of them I agree with.
I'm sure they're true.
I think you would be foolish
not to realize that true
when you see how events are
playing out on the world stage,
but I don't think
it's a bad thing.
I think it's difficult,
but I don't think it's bad
because I think there
comes a time
when normal people
say it's enough now.
I need to take responsibility.
I need to do something about it.
>> Lilou: So the question
how much do we need to react?
>> Bloom: Yeah, and each
one will have a different
boiling point.
Some of us were in the late
80s beginning to realize hey,
there's something
not right here.
We need to be doing something.
This will be very
late to realize
that there's a real problem
that we need to address,
but that's why, if I may
say, to use like yours
and your viewers
are really important
because these are ripples
that go out into the field,
and so I have a belief,
it's a personal belief.
I can't prove it, but
I think it thinks me.
I think the field thinks me, and
I have a radio antenna that kind
of picks up these thoughts,
and I call them my thoughts,
but actually, they're just kind
of floating around up there,
and I can like a lightning
conductor bring them
down to earth.
The reason your viewers
are so important
and what you're doing is
so important is you
actually impact the field.
You actually make a difference
on how the world thinks,
and so the more people that join
and watch the more the old
pyridine starts to dissolve,
and the chance for the new
to emerge becomes much more
obvious, much more effective.
>> Lilou: And you can,
by the way, you know,
there is underneath those videos
on Gaiam TV there is comments,
so if you want to comment
and even say what your
own initiatives has been
in this regard, you know,
let's get the conversation
also open and take care.
I love testimonies.
I mean I feel there is as many--
there's so many people
trying to be on this planet.
I mean we all have
unique talents and beauty.
>> Bloom: That's
one of your viewers.
Every one of your viewers
has their own story
and their own moment of truth
of what made them
suddenly realizes hey.
This isn't working
I need to change.
>> Lilou: Yours was at a moment
where you were driving
your Mercedes.
>> Bloom: Mine was at the moment
where I finally achieved
what I'd set out to achieve,
the big house, the big car.
I'm sitting outside the big
house and thinking is that it?
Is that it?
And realizing that actually
there's a part of us
that isn't nourished by
money and acquisition,
but it's nourished by something
much deeper, and that deeper is
when we contribute, and
that contribution comes
from what I call right action,
but actually, it's contribution.
>> Lilou: So contribution
and letting go
of the need of security?
>> Bloom: I think you have to
let go; if I could quote a poem?
>> Lilou: Yes.
>> Bloom: I went to
India in the late 90s,
and I was with the clergy
and this Kundalini girl,
and I was interested in the
energy of the Kundalini,
and after about ten days I
couldn't stop writing poetry,
but I'd just like to share the
first verse of the first poem
that I ever wrote, because it
was always good instruction
for me, but may be
of value to you too.
And it starts, "First you have
to let go only then can
you truly surrender.
Only then can you truly trust
and only then can
you truly have faith.
And when you have faith
you can enter the gateway,
and when you enter the
gateway you stop living life
and life starts living
you, and then you dance
because there's nothing
there to do."
>> Lilou: I love this.
>> Bloom: It's about letting go.
>> Lilou: Yes.
>> Bloom: It's about letting be.
It's about joyously
contributing.
Who is it at your street,
in your neighborhood,
that needs some help?
Just help and you'll
find that whatever you do
out there comes back
a thousand times.
There's a dynamic see.
A very good friend of mine is Ed
Mitchell; Ed was the sixth man
to walk on the moon, and Ed
had an ecstatic experience
on the way back from the moon.
He had what the Indian culture
calls sun culpa Samadhi;
it's a peak experience, and
he was the Lunar Module pilot
which meant that on the way back
from the moon he had no work
to do, and so he's
in the command module
with the other two astronauts,
but he was just looking
out of the porthole, and he said
he saw the radiance of the earth
and the stars, the moon,
much brighter obviously
than we see them on earth.
And all of a sudden he realized
that the atoms that made
up his body were born in
the heat of the oldest stars
that were ever created,
and now this is his body.
So he realized that his body
didn't end with his skin,
it's just a perception that
actually he was everywhere
and just focused on the
piece that was Ed Mitchell,
but Ed Mitchell was
a universal being.
And that realization bought
him to a state of real ecstasy,
and this is the secret he
writes about in his book.
But what's important to realize
is that if we are all one
that any kindness we do to
another we do to ourselves,
and any evil that we do to
so why would we want to
do badness to anybody?
>> Lilou: Isn't he the one
that also started the IONS?
>> Bloom: Yes, exactly right.
Yes, he started the
Institute of Noetic Sciences
because he was a scientist.
This guy was the best
flight test pilot,
and that's why he was
able to join NASA.
So you-- nothing fluffy about a
test pilot and a chief engineer,
and so he wanted to understand
the scientific, and of course,
the institute is still at
the forefront of looking
into these kinds of experiences,
and looking into
how the mind works.
How the mind works.
What role it plays, you know, in
development and in our growth.
>> Lilou: We're so
interconnected; I love it.
>> Bloom: Yeah, totally.
>> Lilou: I love when we
have those conversations
because those are really to me
the conversations worth having
and that makes us feel good,
but not only just feel good
is totally seeing the world
from another angle.
I remember when my heart
reopens after letting go
of the job and the money.
It felt like, oh my god I'm
going to relive this experience
and just meet again everybody
that I had met in my life.
I feel I'm going to see them
in a total different
light, and there it was.
It's a shift.
It's a pyridine shift.
>> Bloom: Yeah, it's
a huge pyridine shift.
There have been two
interesting books recently,
one by Eben Alexander,
who I understand
Lilou has interviewed,
the other by a lovely
woman, Anita Moorjani.
>> Lilou: Whom I've also
interviewed many times.
>> Bloom: Well, she
is fabulous too,
and you know we're always
learning, and something she said
at an event she held in London a
few weeks ago I thought I would
have guessed it ages ago, but
I really hadn't got it totally.
And she said, "You know
we're all victims."
So her father always
tried to get her married
to a nice Indian boy, but she
didn't want to get married to.
Her book is actually
called "Dying to be Me"
which is a great title,
but she said when she went
to the other realm after
she had clinically died,
she felt extraordinary
unconditional love
from her father, and she
realized that he was a victim
of his own upbringing,
and so we're very locked
into these are the perpetrators.
These are the evil guys.
These are the bad guys.
But you know.
They grew up with a point
of view because of the life
that they led because
of the hardships
or other things that
they endured.
I'm not excusing evil behavior,
but I am saying we should look
at everybody as if
they are victims
of their own genetic stream
and upbringing, and you may not
like them, but at some
level, you could love them,
because you see their own
pain in the way they behave.
>> Lilou: Yeah, hence this
whole ho'oponopono
and everything else related
to that bringing
compassion and forgiveness.
>> Bloom: Yeah, again.
>> Lilou: You practiced all
that, this is so interesting.
>> Bloom: Yeah, because I
believe there are two doors
that enable you to get
out of this earth prison.
I want to say prison, I
mean, prison in your mind,
and it's not a prison, and those
two doors are called gratitude
and forgiveness, and if you can
practice just being grateful
to breathe and grateful to see,
or grateful to hear or to feel,
and feel grateful, and if you
have the capacity to forgive,
those two capacities,
those two lenses to which
to view the world will make
your journey so much easier.
So much more valuable,
so much more lovely.
Sinicism and hatred are not
good foods for the soul.
Gratitude and forgiveness
are real nourishment,
real nourishment.
>> Lilou: Thank you
for those wise
and beautiful words
coming from the heart.
I have a last little question
regarding your little red
bracelet right there.
>> Bloom: Ah, yes.
Okay a number of different
cultures, Buddhism is one.
Judaism is another.
Hinduism is another; have sting
which has been in a holy place
that you wrap around
your right hand
and is said to give protection.
Now, do I believe in it?
I don't know if I believe it,
but I'll tell you something;
it works [brief laughter].
>> Lilou: It's great whether
it's imagination or the truth,
as long as we believe it, or we
have it in our consciousness.
Thank you so much, Lawrence,
for this delicious conversation.
>> Bloom: It's been very juicy.
I loved every second
of it, thank you Lilou
for giving me the opportunity.
>> Lilou: You're welcome and
to all beautiful co-creators
out there, we love you.
Oh my god I hope you've
enjoyed this interview.
Please do share.
Please do comment[background
music]and send videos.
We love you so much.
Big, big kisses from
London in England, bye-bye.
[ Music ]